---
layout: review
title: "A Fall of Moondust"
author: arthur-c-clarke
teaser: ""
tags:
  - "moon"
---

This was one of the first books that I bought for myself, probably around age
13 and introduced me to the fact that you can actually choose the books that
you own. I didn't actually have all that many, I remember a small shelf in my
bedroom containing perhaps 15 or 20 volumes and since I was such an avid reader
I read them all multiple times, including this one. Finding it included in an
Audible two for one deal I decided to give it a go and see how much I recalled…

Yes, I did recall the basic outline and most of the key scenes but still
enjoyed it after the 40 year gap! What did surprise me was how well it holds
up, at least in scientific and ability terms, you could make a very good low
budget disaster movie and not have to change very much at all. Some of the
social aspects would need to change – the emergency ration packs included
cigarettes(!) And wow, the characters were quite a diverse group for their time
I do think we do need to see people from beyond the British Commonwealth!

The story itself is actually quite straightforward, a vehicle carriers tourists
across a large dust filled see on the moon and a freak geological event causes
it to sink in the dust. The story is then one of efforts to 1st locate and then
to extricate the trap tourist and crew, along with the events back at base and
the efforts of the media to find out what is going on. News along at a good
pace, there are a few wasted scenes and the science and technology is pretty
much spot-on, apart from not recognising that the passengers would've had their
own personal entertainment devices and not how to rely on the efforts of the
entertainment committee and the two novels that they managed to round up.

Overall, I enjoyed this and I can recommend it both as a good read and an
interesting audiobook. Not a historical curiosity, a genuine science-fiction
story that holds its own against the current crop.
