---
layout: article
comments: true
title: "CV Advice from 2003"
subtitle: "Still hazy, after all these years..."
tags:
  - personal
---

I'm currently trying to organise and properly catalog my 
[CS teaching materials](/cs-teaching/)
from the early part of this century and came across a document I wrote
for my Software Engineering students. I'd set them a (non-assessed)
assignment to write their CVs as if applying for a SE role. Here's
my generic feedback on their collective efforts, some of which might
still be relevant more than 20 years later!

## Some Notes On CMS Assignment 3

In marking the CMS assignments I came across a number of common errors and problems,
especially on assignment 3, the targetted CV. To save me repeating this I've noted some of the main
problems below.

### Fonts Too Small

The person reading your CV may not have as good eyesight as you, especially once their eyes have
glazed over after the 400th application. Do not use fonts sizes below 10 points, particularly for
important information like your contact details. I know that the “CV” template in Microsoft Word
uses a very small font for the address at the top of the page but just because it is from Microsoft
does not make it right!

### Clumsy Cut And Paste

In some ways, the Windows cut and paste feature is too clever for its own good. By default it will
paste text in to your document preserving the font and other text effects of the original source. This
may not match the font of the paragraph or document you are pasting into. This makes your
document look scrappy and inconsistent. Unless you really want to preserve the original formatting
use Edit -> Past Special... Past as unformatted text.

### Unhelpful Hyperlinks

Microsoft Word “helpfully” turns any e-mail address that you type into a hyperlink and will
underline it and colour it blue. This is completely pointless and unnecessary for a document that is
printed and makes your document look strange – why is the e-mail address underlined and why is
that the only part of the document in colour? Turn this feature OFF! Who is in control here, you or
the word processor?

### Call a Spade a Spade

To spare their shame I shall refrain from naming the person who described their summer job as
“using their initiative to correctly allocate automobile parking locations”. You were a car park
attendant. Over-blown language like this gives the recruiter some light relief but doesn't help your
case.

### Back to Grammar School

The correct use of the apostrophe is to scatter it at random throughout the document in words that
end with “s”, this will convince the reader that you are fully conversant with all aspects of grammar.
Discuss.

For the record folks, the apostrophe is used for two reasons – to indicate a contraction (“didn't”) or
to show possession (“Henry's Cat”). If the subject is plural the apostrophe goes after the “s”
(“Mothers' Day”). Special case, “it's” = “it is”, “its” = “that which belongs to it”.

### Emphasis Envy

I personally intensely dislike **random** emphasis of words for no **apparent** reason. It makes the
document harder to **read**, the sentences do not **scan** well and it makes your CV look like a **cheap**,
**nasty** marketing flyer.

### Proofread, Proofread, Proofread

Read your CV carefully. Then read it again. Get someone else to read it. Run it through the spelling
and grammar checker in Microsoft Word (but do not rely on them – they are both fallible!) Then
sleep on it and read it again in the morning.

### Examination Marks

Your GCSEs may seem long ago and unimportant now that you going to get a degree but employers
will still probably like to know your grades at English and Maths, especially if you did not do these
subjects at 'A' level.

### I'm An Expert I Am...

Completing a 20 week programming course does NOT make you a “highly experienced
C/C++/Delphi programmer”. Completing my CS1TQ2 COTS course does NOT make you “highly
skilled in all Office products” (and neither does the fact that you have written a lot of documents in
word). If you are going to make these claims make sure that you have some real and convincing
evidence for this!

### Interesting Interests

Always include your interests – it gives the interviewers something to talk to you about. You all did
the same degree course, it is your interests and extra-curricular activities that will set you apart from
the other 16,000 Computer Science graduates out looking for jobs this year...

### And Finally...

Apologies to all those who's CVs I was so rude about. It is better that you hear it from me, you will
never get feedback from your job applications, you just won't get any interviews. I am always happy
to heap abuse on your CVs so for some honest feedback feel free to e-mail them to me at the (non-
underlined!) address below.

Regards all,

Karl

K.R.Wilcox@reading.ac.uk
