---
layout: review
title: "Foundation"
subheadline: "Apple TV+"
teaser: "Season 1"
tags:
  - "sci-fi"
---

This was a binge rewatch on account of my attempt to watch season two and
realising that I hadn't been paying proper attention during the first season
and have absolutely no idea what was going on. I really didn't do it justice
first time around.

I do have to say that on a proper and full examination, this show is great and
does repay Care watching, it is certainly not throw away popcorn viewing you
need your wits about you to follow the story.

The quality of the protection was superb. The visuals were gorgeous to look at
in almost every shot and the city planet of Trantor was beautifully realised
and convincingly populated. I like the way the designers had really tried to go
for something different with a visual appearance of the spaceships particularly
but also smaller things like the moving wall art and the advanced gadgetry that
still held an air of believability and obvious utility.

The acting sometimes seem seemed a bit overwrought, although Lee pace was
clearly born to this role and was absolutely brilliant. Jared Harris is always
a great value and does Hari Seldon very well. I was less taken with Gaal and
Raych, they both seemed a bit wooden and Raychâ€™s sawn-off jacket was just weird
and distracting!

The story was well adapted, moving beyond as it was original vision in new and
interesting areas but still has the epic sweep both in space and time of the
original Books. There is a whole universe of things to watch here and I could
see this filling many more seasons of TV viewing with high-quality
science-fiction. I think that now the foundations (ha!) have been laid at this
show can only get better.
