---
layout: review
title: "Andor"
subheadline: "Disney+"
teaser: "Season 2"
tags:
  - "sci-fi"
---

(Interim review)

I’ve been getting back into season 2 of ‘Andor’ on Disney+, now up to episode 4.

I understand that it gets better from here but so far it has been a bit slow to
be honest. All those tedious shots of rich people dancing, and all that time
(literally) watching the corn grow… We could tell episodes ago that Bix was in
danger of a sexual assault but maybe the tension was just maintained a bit too
long before that story line was resolved.

What I will acknowledge is the depth and detail in every shot. These are fully
realised worlds and clearly there has been a huge amount of love, care and
effort that has been put into the production design. The aesthetic might be
described as “1980s extreme“ and this is appropriate, given the Star Wars
heritage. It continues George Lucas‘s original rather grungy feel where every
apartment wall panel has its own mysteriously blinking LED and retro control
panel.

Maybe things would appear to have moved faster had I’ve been binging the show,
but a good show should work both binged and in weekly instalments!

(Later...)

I’ve now seen episode 5 but I’m still not enthused for the rest of the series,
especially when I see that there 7 episodes still to go. I was wondering why
this was? What has been done really well is the feeling of menace and
foreboding that pervades every scene. Everyone is in real peril, even all those
rich folk at the wedding. The Ghorman front are being manipulated by Dedra, who
herself must walk a fine line with her superiors; the bugs are about to be
discovered; Wilmon has effectively been held hostage for as long as he is
useful; Cassian is caught up in the intrigue and Bix is just plain miserable.
Absolutely no-one is happy and doom hangs over everyone. All of this is
terribly well done but doesn’t make for a fun time! Yes, this is Star Wars for
grown ups but maybe I’m watching it to revert to my childhood not be reminded
how bleak the world is out there!